hello my name is Richard Hayworth and
here is a look at the new Sun City Model
Railroad Club location and layout my
earlier video showed the old one and
that little bit of the building where
the new one was going to be located and
there's the layout they're going to be
building and this is the building in
which the layout will be housed actually
it houses an awful lot of activities for
the Sun city rec center all different
kinds of activities in here including
the Model Railroad Club which has a
space now that's about 50% bigger than
the old place that it had it's beautiful
new building state-of-the-art very very
nice and this is in December when the
building opened they've just gotten
access to the room so they've only had
just a little while to start building
and there's the beginning of what will
be the model railroad layout some raw
materials on the corner and there's the
club president talking to a couple of
the members about how they're going to
proceed and what the steps are going to
be to get things done it's a real
detailed process as I found out during
the course of making these videos but
here primarily is just a big empty room
the video is being taken from the
operating balcony on one side of the
room it's where the operator the layout
will eventually be along with all the
control panels this is in back of the of
the layout room itself it's a kitchen
area it's a storage area a work area
where they can store extra things work
on the trains build new buildings and
things like that and those are the steps
up into the balcony where the operating
will be operation will be controlled and
again another look at the raw materials
they're just getting started a couple
buildings a couple of tables tables
built and there's the the operating
balcony again but just a lot of large
space awaiting the construction of the
new layout
here we are a couple months later this
is January 2010 and they've had a chance
to come in here and get some work done a
lot more construction has been done a
lot more tables are here they're
starting to put in the railroad track
and the base for the track and that
consists of some fairly dense fiber
board along with some high-density
styrofoam that they use to insulate the
sound from the trains from the actual
underlying plywood in the layout table
and they do that so that they've got a
firm base for running the trains and
also a way to keep the sound from
reverberating through the plywood that
holds the tables together on the top you
can see a lot more tables there they've
actually extended it on down the room
toward the door this is a speeded-up
version of some of the guys working on
the track and some of the things they do
to actually prepare the track bed for
the laying of the track itself the guy
over on the the right is pounding nails
in to secure the track and here they are
putting down the fiber board on top of
the high-density styrofoam in order to
make a bed for the track to be laid on a
lot more tables we got the equipment in
there sawing things up now this is even
later this is in April and they have
progressed to a point where they've got
a lot of the track laid and they're
starting to put the landscaping basics
in the structure for what will become
the finished landscaping and you can see
that and the cardboard strips and so on
I'll show you some of that a little bit
later but a lot more table a lot more
track laid things are progressing
there's a beginning of wiring on that
board on the back wall for the control
panel but you can see down toward the
door here they've got a lot more table
in and that are beginning to put the
track bed down there here's some details
of the landscaping and how they do it
I'm fascinated by what I'm learning
about how to do this if I'd known all
this one I was doing my model
railroading years ago it would have been
a lot simpler but they're putting the
the cardboard strips in place that are
going to be the basis of the various
mountains and things are going to have
as part of the layout it's going to be
really neat
here's some detail this is a sculpted
styrofoam cliff face they cover that
with some impregnated paper that when it
dries gives you a rock face that looks
like what you see on the right and then
they use books like this to go ahead and
select the colors and decide how they're
going to paint it so it make looks
realistic now this is a partially
painted rock face and another part of
the layout they haven't got all of it
done so you see some of the basic white
cliff face there and then this is the
book they're using it's kind of like the
Red Rocks of Sedona we have here in
Arizona but they're going to be using
that for this part of the layout and
then I'm going to pan around and show
you that White Rock cliff face and the
tracks that run by it I'm really very
surprised at how aesthetic this is
looking even now and the kind of
planning that went into making it look
good they're running trains now they
want to get the trains running as soon
as they can they haven't got all the
bugs worked out but we're going to be
seeing a train coming around the corner
in the midst of all the construction and
they do that because one of the things
they provide is a viewing experience for
people who come through on tours and so
they want to get trains up and running
as fast as I can and we'll see some few
blinking lights because the electricity
isn't quite all worked out yet in the
noops
there's a little bit of a derailment so
they've got some more work to do but
it's all part of the process of ironing
out the site end up and working out the
kinks so they actually get going we're
going to follow this train around we're
going to be seeing a lot more of this
train here that we would when the thing
is finished because we can look through
what's going to be the solid landscaping
and follow the train around that will
all be covered by landscaping when
they're done and here's another look and
train coming around so they do have some
up and running which is one of the
things they wanted to do that again it's
been fascinating for me to see the whole
process that they go through and the
steps they go through and and they don't
have to redo anything they actually do
it right the first time so there's very
very little of having to redo anything
they actually canvas
back inward on the curves by putting a
thin piece of cardboard underneath the
outer rail so they actually are able to
run the trains at a higher speed and
have it safe
there's a train entering to what's going
to be a tunnel we actually can see it
now we will be able to see it in the
future when the tunnel is complete the
landscaping is all there but for now we
can watch it run through the tunnel and
actually come out the other end
fascinating process I've I've learned a
lot as I said it's it's been fascinating
there's some upper level track there and
it's it's they're making good progress
they they're doing pretty well they lose
some members over the summer when
they're snowbirds leave but they're
going to keep working on it and I'll be
doing other updates in the future to
show you how it progresses as we go
along
this is left over from the old layout
buildings cars bridges all kinds of
landscape stuff and that's going to be
incorporated into the new layout but for
now it sits in the back room behind the
layout room waiting to there for them to
get to a point where they can actually
put that kind of stuff in the layout and
here's another shot of the trains coming
through and I'll be taking similar shots
in the future to give you an idea about
what it looks like now and then what it
looks like in the future and you'll be
able to see the changes for yourself so
there will be other updates as the as
the layout work progresses if you're
interested in the Sun City Model
Railroad Club or living in Sun City any
housing information you can give me a
call that's my cell phone number or send
me an email or visit my website I'll be
happy to answer any questions I can
thanks for watching